 No fake tips going on here. There we go. 0-100, 3.7 seconds. Those... What's up ladies and gentlemen and welcome to this POV review by Autotop and L. My name is Max and today I'm taking you around the 2025 facelift Porsche Cayenne Turbo E Hybrid. And we already did the Turbo E Hybrid with the GT package. We don't get the real like proper GT anymore in Europe but a GT package is supposed to sort of sharpen up the handling and make it a little bit more aggressive. This is the regular Cayenne Turbo E Hybrid. It does have a few GT-ish options which we'll talk about but it is the regular Turbo E Hybrid. So today I'm going to show you around it. We'll take a look at the spec, show you the interior, we'll take it for a drive towards the ultimate for the ultimate blast. So we've got a dark gray Cayenne today. I think it's a very handsome car. We've got the coupe today. I like the regular SUV shape better but the spec is really nice. With a bit of carbon fiber here at the front. We've got the new lights of course for the facelift. Turbo specific grille with a bigger air intake. For more air. We've got these GT wheels. These are the GT design wheels. It's not the blue wheel that you get on a proper GT but it is the same design. 22 inch wheels and this is a 285 at the front and we've got a 315 tire at the rear. Continental sport contact 7. Really good tire. Behind that we've got the optional carbon ceramic brakes and we've got air suspension on this car which is really really good. Carbon mirror caps as well. Carbon roof as an option which is nice. We've got a little bit of a spoiler here but you don't get like the winglet thing that you get on the GT package and at the rear you get another little spoiler here. A diffuser which is optional with the carbon fiber and the GT style exhaust with the two central mounted till pipes. This is a proper exhaust. No fake tips going on here in this dark bronze basically and it's a regular stainless exhaust. So you don't get the titanium back box that you get on a KN turbo GT package or a GT which is an acrapuffitch exhaust. This is a regular stainless but it does sound really really good. You've got a light bar running across the rear of course and rear space really good. So this is a big car of course but this is super spacious. A lot of space underneath the seat there for your feet which makes it very comfortable. You don't really see anything because the seats are very big but it is nice and comfy and you've got a bit of ball string going on and this gorgeous fabric like the pipita fabric from Porsche which is super nice. Yeah I like this interior. Nice leather as well. Couple of cup holders here. This is really good. It's a nice family car. Burmester audio also optionally and let's take a look at the engine because it is a turbo ehybrid meaning that we've got the four liter V8 by turbo engine delivering 600 horsepower 800 Nm of torque. Add to that 176 horsepower from an electric motor. You've got 739 horsepower in total and 950 Nm of torque which is enough to propel this 2600 kilo car to 103.7 seconds which is nuts 295 km on our top speed. This is a really really complex power train with the Hp Tipronic S automatic gearbox but it works. It really works. The hybrid part of it is really nice because yeah it's just it's integrated very well and of course we've got the pipita here on the front seats as well and front seats are really good. Yeah you've seen that they are very high so that is nice. High shoulders as well. Turbo logo there on the headrest and yeah this is such a nice car to drive just to use around town on little trips. It's so comfy and it feels like a very very nice companion on on trips. I don't know how else to describe it. It feels like nothing is too much for this car like it can do anything which is really cool. It also has the race text steering wheel so that's this Alcantara basically and on the roof as well. The headliner super nice. It's a very nice spec. A little bit of carbon fiber here and if we start it up you start up in e-power mode and you can switch with the button to go to hybrid for instance. Well you have an off-road mode as well so it raises up the air suspension but hybrid is like your daily thing. It switches between electric and internal combustion. Then you go to sport. Air suspension drops down. Suspension goes to sport. Exhaust valves open up and then you go to sport plus which is the most aggressive setting and then you can choose your suspension there as well. Sport plus is very hard and that's the benefit of this air suspension. It can get like proper low and also pretty pretty damn firm. So I don't know if it's not lowering because my door is open yet. So now it lowers. You just have a look at how low it actually goes. So this is the lowest mode. Yeah that's not bad. All right so the sound. Listen to that. It's not super loud but a little bit of a burble. I like it. It's sound deep, dark. It doesn't sound fake. There's two of the cabin which is also great but it's also not obnoxiously loud on the exterior for other people. You're not an asshole. It just sounds like a V8 KN which is good. So of course we're going for sport plus on the B-road and traction control off. You get active anti-roll bars. You get Porsche torque vectoring, diff at the rear. You get rear wheel steering, everything just there to make you feel like the car is smaller and lighter than it actually is. Which it does work especially on the B-road. I mean the cornering and just throwing it around. It's really not bad. It's actually very very impressive for a car this big and heavy. And of course you've got that power which just takes away a lot of the weight as well. It feels much smaller and lighter than it actually is unless you start braking that's when you really feel that weight coming behind you. It's not bad. It's called the carbon ceramics. So braking performance is actually very good. It's just a little bit difficult to modulate. They're not that consistent because you have the regen going on and the downshifting when you come to a halt. And sometimes it can be a little bit jerky. Other than that it's perfectly fine. The braking performance is really good and I would definitely recommend going for the ceramics at all. I don't like this because the speeds that you reach with it are just so high and the weight it's like 2600 kilos. I think it's a good addition. So launch control. There we go. 0-100, 3.7 seconds. We did 3.6. Now the turbo GT which is well the turbo GT package which sits above this one does 3.6 and has a top speed of 305 so that is like the big daddy. This is a little bit less over an aggressive package. Well that's mainly the suspension which is 10 millimeters higher than the turbo GT package. Other than that it's not that big of a difference. You get the carbon ceramics as out of the rear as any Porsche should. All right so that's it the Autobahn. And it is it just it does still impress me the way that they've been able to get these SUVs to work because not that long ago this would be absolutely unimaginable that this car would be able to do this. So now it would be a good idea to switch the suspension. So we're going to go for sport plus with sport suspension for the Autobahn. There it is which just immediately takes out those little bit harsh reactions to the road surface which is great that's the benefit of that air suspension it is so good. So how does it compare to all the other super SUVs we've driven the DBX Audi RQ8 VWX5M. I think this is probably the most capable one. It has the best connection especially the GT package I think is the craziest handling SUV that's 295 rounded top speed of the car. The DBX 707 also very very impressive car but I'm not more expensive but I feel like this car strikes a really really good balance between sporty and daily comfort. I also think it's a handsome car but I don't I don't know if I would pass on that RSQ8 performance that we drove recently because I also really like that car and it's it's even more free from protection and it offers almost the same package of course with the same V8. So yeah it's up to you if you want to pay the premium for the Porsche badge. I do think that this is a little bit better handling. 100 to 200 we then 801 which was also pretty dark quick. There is one thing though that you can also do at Porsche which is by a GTS which has the same V8 with 500 horsepower and it weighs almost 400 kilos less than this. So that might actually be the driver's choice. This offers a lot more power though and that car 739 is serious and on the Autobahn it is very very quick but if you drive it in a regular country like on regular highways or on regular country roads or in the city and you just you floor this car it is so quick and it just it obliterates everything around you and that is that is very cool about having this turbo power this turbo e hybrid power because it just takes off. You you kick down like this it shifts down you get e boost and it's so quick and unrelenting as well it just keeps going but again you know this is fun when you drive on the Autobahn a lot or regularly or at least a couple times a year but in the real world I mean isn't this a little bit too much I really I do believe that this is too much that you don't need this that the car is not a better car for it it would arguably be better with a little bit less power than you can use a little bit more hence my fascination with that GTS which weighs almost 400 kilos less I think that might actually be the pick of the range. I love that this exists though don't get me wrong the fact that I'm doing this in an SUV to 90 through corner here to 88 is amazing and the power delivery is incredible the hybrid part of it is great it actually does go any faster than this is this a limited I think so it's like 5900 RPM Zeus 95 incredible car it will do everything you throw at it and it is unfazed it is an insane piece of equipment and we've driven it for almost a week and you just start to appreciate the the broadness of the ability of the car because you use it for everything and it does everything so easily so well I mean it better do everything so well for this money but still amazing car so thank you for watching hope you enjoyed it you can subscribe by clicking the big button in the middle check out this review of the turbo ehybrid with the GT package check out this playlist and I'll see you the next one bye